docs/sanic/exceptions.md, before:

# Exceptions

Exceptions can be thrown from within request handlers and will automatically be
handled by Sanic. Exceptions take a message as their first argument, and can
also take a status code to be passed back in the HTTP response.

## Throwing an exception

To throw an exception, simply `raise` the relevant exception from the
`sanic.exceptions` module.

```python
from sanic.exceptions import ServerError

@app.route('/killme')
async def i_am_ready_to_die(request):
	raise ServerError("Something bad happened", status_code=500)
```

You can also use the `abort` function with the appropriate status code:

```python
from sanic.exceptions import abort
from sanic.response import text

@app.route('/youshallnotpass')
async def no_no(request):
        abort(401)
        # this won't happen
        text("OK")
```

## Handling exceptions

To override Sanic's default handling of an exception, the `@app.exception`
decorator is used. The decorator expects a list of exceptions to handle as
arguments. You can pass `SanicException` to catch them all! The decorated
exception handler function must take a `Request` and `Exception` object as
arguments.

```python
from sanic.response import text
from sanic.exceptions import NotFound

@app.exception(NotFound)
async def ignore_404s(request, exception):
	return text("Yep, I totally found the page: {}".format(request.url))
```

## Useful exceptions

Some of the most useful exceptions are presented below:

- `NotFound`: called when a suitable route for the request isn't found.
- `ServerError`: called when something goes wrong inside the server. This
  usually occurs if there is an exception raised in user code.

See the `sanic.exceptions` module for the full list of exceptions to throw.

Commit message:

Update exceptions.md (#1431)
Documented error handling from ``app.error_handler.add``
Documented custom error handling by subclassing.

docs/sanic/exceptions.md, after:

# Exceptions

Exceptions can be thrown from within request handlers and will automatically be
handled by Sanic. Exceptions take a message as their first argument, and can
also take a status code to be passed back in the HTTP response.

## Throwing an exception

To throw an exception, simply `raise` the relevant exception from the
`sanic.exceptions` module.

```python
from sanic.exceptions import ServerError

@app.route('/killme')
async def i_am_ready_to_die(request):
	raise ServerError("Something bad happened", status_code=500)
```

You can also use the `abort` function with the appropriate status code:

```python
from sanic.exceptions import abort
from sanic.response import text

@app.route('/youshallnotpass')
async def no_no(request):
        abort(401)
        # this won't happen
        text("OK")
```

## Handling exceptions

To override Sanic's default handling of an exception, the `@app.exception`
decorator is used. The decorator expects a list of exceptions to handle as
arguments. You can pass `SanicException` to catch them all! The decorated
exception handler function must take a `Request` and `Exception` object as
arguments.

```python
from sanic.response import text
from sanic.exceptions import NotFound

@app.exception(NotFound)
async def ignore_404s(request, exception):
	return text("Yep, I totally found the page: {}".format(request.url))
```

You can also add an exception handler as such:

```python
from sanic import Sanic

async def server_error_handler(request, exception):
	return text("Oops, server error", status=500)

app = Sanic()
app.error_handler.add(Exception, server_error_handler)
```

In some cases, you might want want to add some more error handling
functionality to what is provided by default. In that case, you 
can subclass Sanic's default error handler as such:

```python
from sanic import Sanic
from sanic.handlers import ErrorHnadler

class CustomErrorHandler(ErrorHandler):
	def default(self, request, exception):
		''' handles errors that have no error handlers assigned '''
		# You custom error handling logic...
		return super().default(request, exception)
		
app = Sanic()
app.error_handler = CustomErrorHandler()
```

## Useful exceptions

Some of the most useful exceptions are presented below:

- `NotFound`: called when a suitable route for the request isn't found.
- `ServerError`: called when something goes wrong inside the server. This
  usually occurs if there is an exception raised in user code.

See the `sanic.exceptions` module for the full list of exceptions to throw.
