docs/sanic/extensions.md, before:

# Extensions

A list of Sanic extensions created by the community.
- [Sanic-Plugins-Framework](https://github.com/ashleysommer/sanicpluginsframework): Library for easily creating and using Sanic plugins.
- [Sessions](https://github.com/subyraman/sanic_session): Support for sessions.
  Allows using redis, memcache or an in memory store.
- [CORS](https://github.com/ashleysommer/sanic-cors): A port of flask-cors.
- [Compress](https://github.com/subyraman/sanic_compress): Allows you to easily gzip Sanic responses. A port of Flask-Compress.
- [Jinja2](https://github.com/lixxu/sanic-jinja2): Support for Jinja2 template.
- [JWT](https://github.com/ahopkins/sanic-jwt): Authentication extension for JSON Web Tokens (JWT).
- [OpenAPI/Swagger](https://github.com/channelcat/sanic-openapi): OpenAPI support, plus a Swagger UI.
- [Pagination](https://github.com/lixxu/python-paginate): Simple pagination support.
- [Motor](https://github.com/lixxu/sanic-motor): Simple motor wrapper.
- [Sanic CRUD](https://github.com/Typhon66/sanic_crud): CRUD REST API generation with peewee models.
- [UserAgent](https://github.com/lixxu/sanic-useragent): Add `user_agent` to request
- [Limiter](https://github.com/bohea/sanic-limiter): Rate limiting for sanic.
- [Sanic EnvConfig](https://github.com/jamesstidard/sanic-envconfig): Pull environment variables into your sanic config.
- [Babel](https://github.com/lixxu/sanic-babel): Adds i18n/l10n support to Sanic applications with the help of the
`Babel` library
- [Dispatch](https://github.com/ashleysommer/sanic-dispatcher): A dispatcher inspired by `DispatcherMiddleware` in werkzeug. Can act as a Sanic-to-WSGI adapter.
- [Sanic-OAuth](https://github.com/Sniedes722/Sanic-OAuth): OAuth Library for connecting to & creating your own token providers.
- [Sanic-nginx-docker-example](https://github.com/itielshwartz/sanic-nginx-docker-example): Simple and easy to use example of Sanic behined nginx using docker-compose.
- [sanic-graphql](https://github.com/graphql-python/sanic-graphql): GraphQL integration with Sanic
- [sanic-prometheus](https://github.com/dkruchinin/sanic-prometheus): Prometheus metrics for Sanic
- [Sanic-RestPlus](https://github.com/ashleysommer/sanic-restplus): A port of Flask-RestPlus for Sanic. Full-featured REST API with SwaggerUI generation.
- [sanic-transmute](https://github.com/yunstanford/sanic-transmute): A Sanic extension that generates APIs from python function and classes, and also generates Swagger UI/documentation automatically.
- [pytest-sanic](https://github.com/yunstanford/pytest-sanic): A pytest plugin for Sanic. It helps you to test your code asynchronously.
- [jinja2-sanic](https://github.com/yunstanford/jinja2-sanic): a jinja2 template renderer for Sanic.([Documentation](http://jinja2-sanic.readthedocs.io/en/latest/))

Commit message:

Provide information about sanic-oauth extension

docs/sanic/extensions.md, after:

# Extensions

A list of Sanic extensions created by the community.
- [Sanic-Plugins-Framework](https://github.com/ashleysommer/sanicpluginsframework): Library for easily creating and using Sanic plugins.
- [Sessions](https://github.com/subyraman/sanic_session): Support for sessions.
  Allows using redis, memcache or an in memory store.
- [CORS](https://github.com/ashleysommer/sanic-cors): A port of flask-cors.
- [Compress](https://github.com/subyraman/sanic_compress): Allows you to easily gzip Sanic responses. A port of Flask-Compress.
- [Jinja2](https://github.com/lixxu/sanic-jinja2): Support for Jinja2 template.
- [JWT](https://github.com/ahopkins/sanic-jwt): Authentication extension for JSON Web Tokens (JWT).
- [OpenAPI/Swagger](https://github.com/channelcat/sanic-openapi): OpenAPI support, plus a Swagger UI.
- [Pagination](https://github.com/lixxu/python-paginate): Simple pagination support.
- [Motor](https://github.com/lixxu/sanic-motor): Simple motor wrapper.
- [Sanic CRUD](https://github.com/Typhon66/sanic_crud): CRUD REST API generation with peewee models.
- [UserAgent](https://github.com/lixxu/sanic-useragent): Add `user_agent` to request
- [Limiter](https://github.com/bohea/sanic-limiter): Rate limiting for sanic.
- [Sanic EnvConfig](https://github.com/jamesstidard/sanic-envconfig): Pull environment variables into your sanic config.
- [Babel](https://github.com/lixxu/sanic-babel): Adds i18n/l10n support to Sanic applications with the help of the
`Babel` library
- [Dispatch](https://github.com/ashleysommer/sanic-dispatcher): A dispatcher inspired by `DispatcherMiddleware` in werkzeug. Can act as a Sanic-to-WSGI adapter.
- [Sanic-OAuth](https://github.com/Sniedes722/Sanic-OAuth): OAuth Library for connecting to & creating your own token providers.
- [sanic-oauth](https://gitlab.com/SirEdvin/sanic-oauth): OAuth Library with many provider and OAuth1/OAuth2 support.
- [Sanic-nginx-docker-example](https://github.com/itielshwartz/sanic-nginx-docker-example): Simple and easy to use example of Sanic behined nginx using docker-compose.
- [sanic-graphql](https://github.com/graphql-python/sanic-graphql): GraphQL integration with Sanic
- [sanic-prometheus](https://github.com/dkruchinin/sanic-prometheus): Prometheus metrics for Sanic
- [Sanic-RestPlus](https://github.com/ashleysommer/sanic-restplus): A port of Flask-RestPlus for Sanic. Full-featured REST API with SwaggerUI generation.
- [sanic-transmute](https://github.com/yunstanford/sanic-transmute): A Sanic extension that generates APIs from python function and classes, and also generates Swagger UI/documentation automatically.
- [pytest-sanic](https://github.com/yunstanford/pytest-sanic): A pytest plugin for Sanic. It helps you to test your code asynchronously.
- [jinja2-sanic](https://github.com/yunstanford/jinja2-sanic): a jinja2 template renderer for Sanic.([Documentation](http://jinja2-sanic.readthedocs.io/en/latest/))
