docs/sanic/streaming.md, before:

# Streaming

Sanic allows you to stream content to the client with the `stream` method. This method accepts a coroutine callback which is passed a `StreamingHTTPResponse` object that is written to. A simple example is like follows:

```python
from sanic import Sanic
from sanic.response import stream

app = Sanic(__name__)

@app.route("/")
async def test(request):
    async def sample_streaming_fn(response):
        response.write('foo,')
        response.write('bar')

    return stream(sample_streaming_fn, content_type='text/csv')
```

This is useful in situations where you want to stream content to the client that originates in an external service, like a database. For example, you can stream database records to the client with the asynchronous cursor that `asyncpg` provides:

```python
@app.route("/")
async def index(request):
    async def stream_from_db(response):
        conn = await asyncpg.connect(database='test')
        async with conn.transaction():
            async for record in conn.cursor('SELECT generate_series(0, 10)'):
                response.write(record[0])

    return stream(stream_from_db)
```

## Request Streaming

Sanic allows you to get request data by stream, as below. When the request ends, `request.stream.get()` returns `None`.

```python
from sanic import Sanic
from sanic.views import CompositionView
from sanic.views import HTTPMethodView
from sanic.views import stream as stream_decorator
from sanic.blueprints import Blueprint
from sanic.response import stream, text

bp = Blueprint('blueprint_request_stream')
app = Sanic('request_stream')


class SimpleView(HTTPMethodView):

    @stream_decorator
    async def post(self, request):
        result = ''
        while True:
            body = await request.stream.get()
            if body is None:
                break
            result += body.decode('utf-8')
        return text(result)


@app.stream('/stream')
async def handler(request):
    async def streaming(response):
        while True:
            body = await request.stream.get()
            if body is None:
                break
            body = body.decode('utf-8').replace('1', 'A')
            response.write(body)
    return stream(streaming)


@bp.stream('/bp_stream')
async def bp_handler(request):
    result = ''
    while True:
        body = await request.stream.get()
        if body is None:
            break
        result += body.decode('utf-8').replace('1', 'A')
    return text(result)


async def post_handler(request):
    result = ''
    while True:
        body = await request.stream.get()
        if body is None:
            break
        result += body.decode('utf-8')
    return text(result)

app.blueprint(bp)
app.add_route(SimpleView.as_view(), '/method_view')
view = CompositionView()
view.add(['POST'], post_handler, stream=True)
app.add_route(view, '/composition_view')


if __name__ == '__main__':
    app.run(host='127.0.0.1', port=8000)
```

Commit message:

Replace stream decorator to stream parameter

docs/sanic/streaming.md, after:

# Streaming

Sanic allows you to stream content to the client with the `stream` method. This method accepts a coroutine callback which is passed a `StreamingHTTPResponse` object that is written to. A simple example is like follows:

```python
from sanic import Sanic
from sanic.response import stream

app = Sanic(__name__)

@app.route("/")
async def test(request):
    async def sample_streaming_fn(response):
        response.write('foo,')
        response.write('bar')

    return stream(sample_streaming_fn, content_type='text/csv')
```

This is useful in situations where you want to stream content to the client that originates in an external service, like a database. For example, you can stream database records to the client with the asynchronous cursor that `asyncpg` provides:

```python
@app.route("/")
async def index(request):
    async def stream_from_db(response):
        conn = await asyncpg.connect(database='test')
        async with conn.transaction():
            async for record in conn.cursor('SELECT generate_series(0, 10)'):
                response.write(record[0])

    return stream(stream_from_db)
```

## Request Streaming

Sanic allows you to get request data by stream, as below. When the request ends, `request.stream.get()` returns `None`. Only post, put and patch decorator have stream argument.

```python
from sanic import Sanic
from sanic.views import CompositionView
from sanic.views import HTTPMethodView
from sanic.views import stream as stream_decorator
from sanic.blueprints import Blueprint
from sanic.response import stream, text

bp = Blueprint('blueprint_request_stream')
app = Sanic('request_stream')


class SimpleView(HTTPMethodView):

    @stream_decorator
    async def post(self, request):
        result = ''
        while True:
            body = await request.stream.get()
            if body is None:
                break
            result += body.decode('utf-8')
        return text(result)


@app.post('/stream', stream=True)
async def handler(request):
    async def streaming(response):
        while True:
            body = await request.stream.get()
            if body is None:
                break
            body = body.decode('utf-8').replace('1', 'A')
            response.write(body)
    return stream(streaming)


@bp.put('/bp_stream', stream=True)
async def bp_handler(request):
    result = ''
    while True:
        body = await request.stream.get()
        if body is None:
            break
        result += body.decode('utf-8').replace('1', 'A')
    return text(result)


async def post_handler(request):
    result = ''
    while True:
        body = await request.stream.get()
        if body is None:
            break
        result += body.decode('utf-8')
    return text(result)

app.blueprint(bp)
app.add_route(SimpleView.as_view(), '/method_view')
view = CompositionView()
view.add(['POST'], post_handler, stream=True)
app.add_route(view, '/composition_view')


if __name__ == '__main__':
    app.run(host='127.0.0.1', port=8000)
```
