docs/sanic/testing.rst, before:

Testing
=======

Sanic endpoints can be tested locally using the `test_client` object, which
depends on the additional `requests-async <https://github.com/encode/requests-async>`_
library, which implements an API that mirrors the `requests` library.

The `test_client` exposes `get`, `post`, `put`, `delete`, `patch`, `head` and `options` methods
for you to run against your application. A simple example (using pytest) is like follows:

.. code-block:: python

    # Import the Sanic app, usually created with Sanic(__name__)
    from external_server import app

    def test_index_returns_200():
        request, response = app.test_client.get('/')
        assert response.status == 200

    def test_index_put_not_allowed():
        request, response = app.test_client.put('/')
        assert response.status == 405

Internally, each time you call one of the `test_client` methods, the Sanic app is run at `127.0.0.1:42101` and
your test request is executed against your application, using `requests-async`.

The `test_client` methods accept the following arguments and keyword arguments:

- `uri` *(default `'/'`)* A string representing the URI to test.
- `gather_request` *(default `True`)* A boolean which determines whether the
  original request will be returned by the function. If set to `True`, the
  return value is a tuple of `(request, response)`, if `False` only the
  response is returned.
- `server_kwargs` *(default `{}`)* a dict of additional arguments to pass into `app.run` before the test request is run.
- `debug` *(default `False`)* A boolean which determines whether to run the server in debug mode.

The function further takes the `*request_args` and `**request_kwargs`, which are passed directly to the request.

For example, to supply data to a GET request, you would do the following:

.. code-block:: python

    def test_get_request_includes_data():
        params = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 'value2'}
        request, response = app.test_client.get('/', params=params)
        assert request.args.get('key1') == 'value1'

And to supply data to a JSON POST request:

.. code-block:: python

    def test_post_json_request_includes_data():
        data = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 'value2'}
        request, response = app.test_client.post('/', data=json.dumps(data))
        assert request.json.get('key1') == 'value1'

More information about
the available arguments to `requests-async` can be found
[in the documentation for `requests <https://2.python-requests.org/en/master/>`_.


Using a random port
-------------------

If you need to test using a free unpriveleged port chosen by the kernel
instead of the default with `SanicTestClient`, you can do so by specifying
`port=None`. On most systems the port will be in the range 1024 to 65535.

.. code-block:: python

    # Import the Sanic app, usually created with Sanic(__name__)
    from external_server import app
    from sanic.testing import SanicTestClient

    def test_index_returns_200():
        request, response = SanicTestClient(app, port=None).get('/')
        assert response.status == 200

pytest-sanic
------------

`pytest-sanic <https://github.com/yunstanford/pytest-sanic>`_ is a pytest plugin, it helps you to test your code asynchronously.
Just write tests like,

.. code-block:: python

    async def test_sanic_db_find_by_id(app):
        """
        Let's assume that, in db we have,
            {
                "id": "123",
                "name": "Kobe Bryant",
                "team": "Lakers",
            }
        """
        doc = await app.db["players"].find_by_id("123")
        assert doc.name == "Kobe Bryant"
        assert doc.team == "Lakers"

`pytest-sanic <https://github.com/yunstanford/pytest-sanic>`_ also provides some useful fixtures, like loop, unused_port,
test_server, test_client.

.. code-block:: python

    @pytest.yield_fixture
    def app():
        app = Sanic("test_sanic_app")

        @app.route("/test_get", methods=['GET'])
        async def test_get(request):
            return response.json({"GET": True})

        @app.route("/test_post", methods=['POST'])
        async def test_post(request):
            return response.json({"POST": True})

        yield app


    @pytest.fixture
    def test_cli(loop, app, test_client):
        return loop.run_until_complete(test_client(app, protocol=WebSocketProtocol))


    #########
    # Tests #
    #########

    async def test_fixture_test_client_get(test_cli):
        """
        GET request
        """
        resp = await test_cli.get('/test_get')
        assert resp.status == 200
        resp_json = await resp.json()
        assert resp_json == {"GET": True}

    async def test_fixture_test_client_post(test_cli):
        """
        POST request
        """
        resp = await test_cli.post('/test_post')
        assert resp.status == 200
        resp_json = await resp.json()
        assert resp_json == {"POST": True}

Commit message:

Swap out requests-async for httpx (#1728)
* Begin swap of requests-async for httpx

* Finalize httpx adoption and resolve tests

Resolve linting and formatting

* Remove documentation references to requests-async in favor of httpx

docs/sanic/testing.rst, after:

Testing
=======

Sanic endpoints can be tested locally using the `test_client` object, which
depends on an additional package: `httpx <https://www.encode.io/httpx/>`_
library, which implements an API that mirrors the `requests` library.

The `test_client` exposes `get`, `post`, `put`, `delete`, `patch`, `head` and `options` methods
for you to run against your application. A simple example (using pytest) is like follows:

.. code-block:: python

    # Import the Sanic app, usually created with Sanic(__name__)
    from external_server import app

    def test_index_returns_200():
        request, response = app.test_client.get('/')
        assert response.status == 200

    def test_index_put_not_allowed():
        request, response = app.test_client.put('/')
        assert response.status == 405

Internally, each time you call one of the `test_client` methods, the Sanic app is run at `127.0.0.1:42101` and
your test request is executed against your application, using `httpx`.

The `test_client` methods accept the following arguments and keyword arguments:

- `uri` *(default `'/'`)* A string representing the URI to test.
- `gather_request` *(default `True`)* A boolean which determines whether the
  original request will be returned by the function. If set to `True`, the
  return value is a tuple of `(request, response)`, if `False` only the
  response is returned.
- `server_kwargs` *(default `{}`)* a dict of additional arguments to pass into `app.run` before the test request is run.
- `debug` *(default `False`)* A boolean which determines whether to run the server in debug mode.

The function further takes the `*request_args` and `**request_kwargs`, which are passed directly to the request.

For example, to supply data to a GET request, you would do the following:

.. code-block:: python

    def test_get_request_includes_data():
        params = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 'value2'}
        request, response = app.test_client.get('/', params=params)
        assert request.args.get('key1') == 'value1'

And to supply data to a JSON POST request:

.. code-block:: python

    def test_post_json_request_includes_data():
        data = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 'value2'}
        request, response = app.test_client.post('/', data=json.dumps(data))
        assert request.json.get('key1') == 'value1'

More information about
the available arguments to `httpx` can be found
[in the documentation for `httpx <https://www.encode.io/httpx/>`_.


Using a random port
-------------------

If you need to test using a free unpriveleged port chosen by the kernel
instead of the default with `SanicTestClient`, you can do so by specifying
`port=None`. On most systems the port will be in the range 1024 to 65535.

.. code-block:: python

    # Import the Sanic app, usually created with Sanic(__name__)
    from external_server import app
    from sanic.testing import SanicTestClient

    def test_index_returns_200():
        request, response = SanicTestClient(app, port=None).get('/')
        assert response.status == 200

pytest-sanic
------------

`pytest-sanic <https://github.com/yunstanford/pytest-sanic>`_ is a pytest plugin, it helps you to test your code asynchronously.
Just write tests like,

.. code-block:: python

    async def test_sanic_db_find_by_id(app):
        """
        Let's assume that, in db we have,
            {
                "id": "123",
                "name": "Kobe Bryant",
                "team": "Lakers",
            }
        """
        doc = await app.db["players"].find_by_id("123")
        assert doc.name == "Kobe Bryant"
        assert doc.team == "Lakers"

`pytest-sanic <https://github.com/yunstanford/pytest-sanic>`_ also provides some useful fixtures, like loop, unused_port,
test_server, test_client.

.. code-block:: python

    @pytest.yield_fixture
    def app():
        app = Sanic("test_sanic_app")

        @app.route("/test_get", methods=['GET'])
        async def test_get(request):
            return response.json({"GET": True})

        @app.route("/test_post", methods=['POST'])
        async def test_post(request):
            return response.json({"POST": True})

        yield app


    @pytest.fixture
    def test_cli(loop, app, test_client):
        return loop.run_until_complete(test_client(app, protocol=WebSocketProtocol))


    #########
    # Tests #
    #########

    async def test_fixture_test_client_get(test_cli):
        """
        GET request
        """
        resp = await test_cli.get('/test_get')
        assert resp.status == 200
        resp_json = await resp.json()
        assert resp_json == {"GET": True}

    async def test_fixture_test_client_post(test_cli):
        """
        POST request
        """
        resp = await test_cli.post('/test_post')
        assert resp.status == 200
        resp_json = await resp.json()
        assert resp_json == {"POST": True}
