docs/sanic/testing.md, before:

# Testing

Sanic endpoints can be tested locally using the `test_client` object, which
depends on the additional [aiohttp](https://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
library. 

The `test_client` exposes `get`, `post`, `put`, `delete`, `patch`, `head` and `options` methods
for you to run against your application. A simple example (using pytest) is like follows:

```python
# Import the Sanic app, usually created with Sanic(__name__)
from external_server import app

def test_index_returns_200():
    request, response = app.test_client.get('/')
    assert response.status == 200

def test_index_put_not_allowed():
    request, response = app.test_client.put('/')
    assert response.status == 405
```

Internally, each time you call one of the `test_client` methods, the Sanic app is run at `127.0.0.1:42101` and 
your test request is executed against your application, using `aiohttp`. 

The `test_client` methods accept the following arguments and keyword arguments:

- `uri` *(default `'/'`)* A string representing the URI to test.
- `gather_request` *(default `True`)* A boolean which determines whether the
  original request will be returned by the function. If set to `True`, the
  return value is a tuple of `(request, response)`, if `False` only the
  response is returned.
- `server_kwargs` *(default `{}`) a dict of additional arguments to pass into `app.run` before the test request is run.
- `debug` *(default `False`)* A boolean which determines whether to run the server in debug mode.

The function further takes the `*request_args` and `**request_kwargs`, which are passed directly to the aiohttp ClientSession request.

For example, to supply data to a GET request, you would do the following:

```python
def test_get_request_includes_data():
    params = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 'value2'}
    request, response = app.test_client.get('/', params=params)
    assert request.args.get('key1') == 'value1'
```

And to supply data to a JSON POST request:

```python
def test_post_json_request_includes_data():
    data = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 'value2'}
    request, response = app.test_client.post('/', data=json.dumps(data))
    assert request.json.get('key1') == 'value1'
```


More information about
the available arguments to aiohttp can be found
[in the documentation for ClientSession](https://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#client-session).


## pytest-sanic

[pytest-sanic](https://github.com/yunstanford/pytest-sanic) is a pytest plugin, it helps you to test your code asynchronously.
Just write tests like,

```python
async def test_sanic_db_find_by_id(app):
    """
    Let's assume that, in db we have,
        {
            "id": "123",
            "name": "Kobe Bryant",
            "team": "Lakers",
        }
    """
    doc = await app.db["players"].find_by_id("123")
    assert doc.name == "Kobe Bryant"
    assert doc.team == "Lakers"
```

[pytest-sanic](https://github.com/yunstanford/pytest-sanic) also provides some useful fixtures, like loop, unused_port,
test_server, test_client.

```python
@pytest.yield_fixture
def app():
    app = Sanic("test_sanic_app")

    @app.route("/test_get", methods=['GET'])
    async def test_get(request):
        return response.json({"GET": True})

    @app.route("/test_post", methods=['POST'])
    async def test_post(request):
        return response.json({"POST": True})

    yield app


@pytest.fixture
def test_cli(loop, app, test_client):
    return loop.run_until_complete(test_client(app, protocol=WebSocketProtocol))


#########
# Tests #
#########

async def test_fixture_test_client_get(test_cli):
    """
    GET request
    """
    resp = await test_cli.get('/test_get')
    assert resp.status == 200
    resp_json = await resp.json()
    assert resp_json == {"GET": True}

async def test_fixture_test_client_post(test_cli):
    """
    POST request
    """
    resp = await test_cli.post('/test_post')
    assert resp.status == 200
    resp_json = await resp.json()
    assert resp_json == {"POST": True}
```

Commit message:

Allow sanic test client to bind to a random port

docs/sanic/testing.md, after:

# Testing

Sanic endpoints can be tested locally using the `test_client` object, which
depends on the additional [aiohttp](https://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
library. 

The `test_client` exposes `get`, `post`, `put`, `delete`, `patch`, `head` and `options` methods
for you to run against your application. A simple example (using pytest) is like follows:

```python
# Import the Sanic app, usually created with Sanic(__name__)
from external_server import app

def test_index_returns_200():
    request, response = app.test_client.get('/')
    assert response.status == 200

def test_index_put_not_allowed():
    request, response = app.test_client.put('/')
    assert response.status == 405
```

Internally, each time you call one of the `test_client` methods, the Sanic app is run at `127.0.0.1:42101` and 
your test request is executed against your application, using `aiohttp`. 

The `test_client` methods accept the following arguments and keyword arguments:

- `uri` *(default `'/'`)* A string representing the URI to test.
- `gather_request` *(default `True`)* A boolean which determines whether the
  original request will be returned by the function. If set to `True`, the
  return value is a tuple of `(request, response)`, if `False` only the
  response is returned.
- `server_kwargs` *(default `{}`) a dict of additional arguments to pass into `app.run` before the test request is run.
- `debug` *(default `False`)* A boolean which determines whether to run the server in debug mode.

The function further takes the `*request_args` and `**request_kwargs`, which are passed directly to the aiohttp ClientSession request.

For example, to supply data to a GET request, you would do the following:

```python
def test_get_request_includes_data():
    params = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 'value2'}
    request, response = app.test_client.get('/', params=params)
    assert request.args.get('key1') == 'value1'
```

And to supply data to a JSON POST request:

```python
def test_post_json_request_includes_data():
    data = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 'value2'}
    request, response = app.test_client.post('/', data=json.dumps(data))
    assert request.json.get('key1') == 'value1'
```


More information about
the available arguments to aiohttp can be found
[in the documentation for ClientSession](https://aiohttp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/client_reference.html#client-session).


## Using a random port

If you need to test using a free unpriveleged port chosen by the kernel
instead of the default with `SanicTestClient`, you can do so by specifying
`port=None`. On most systems the port will be in the range 1024 to 65535.

```python
# Import the Sanic app, usually created with Sanic(__name__)
from external_server import app
from sanic.testing import SanicTestClient

def test_index_returns_200():
    request, response = SanicTestClient(app, port=None).get('/')
    assert response.status == 200
```


## pytest-sanic

[pytest-sanic](https://github.com/yunstanford/pytest-sanic) is a pytest plugin, it helps you to test your code asynchronously.
Just write tests like,

```python
async def test_sanic_db_find_by_id(app):
    """
    Let's assume that, in db we have,
        {
            "id": "123",
            "name": "Kobe Bryant",
            "team": "Lakers",
        }
    """
    doc = await app.db["players"].find_by_id("123")
    assert doc.name == "Kobe Bryant"
    assert doc.team == "Lakers"
```

[pytest-sanic](https://github.com/yunstanford/pytest-sanic) also provides some useful fixtures, like loop, unused_port,
test_server, test_client.

```python
@pytest.yield_fixture
def app():
    app = Sanic("test_sanic_app")

    @app.route("/test_get", methods=['GET'])
    async def test_get(request):
        return response.json({"GET": True})

    @app.route("/test_post", methods=['POST'])
    async def test_post(request):
        return response.json({"POST": True})

    yield app


@pytest.fixture
def test_cli(loop, app, test_client):
    return loop.run_until_complete(test_client(app, protocol=WebSocketProtocol))


#########
# Tests #
#########

async def test_fixture_test_client_get(test_cli):
    """
    GET request
    """
    resp = await test_cli.get('/test_get')
    assert resp.status == 200
    resp_json = await resp.json()
    assert resp_json == {"GET": True}

async def test_fixture_test_client_post(test_cli):
    """
    POST request
    """
    resp = await test_cli.post('/test_post')
    assert resp.status == 200
    resp_json = await resp.json()
    assert resp_json == {"POST": True}
```
