docs/class_based_views.md, before:

# Class based views

Sanic has simple class based implementation. You should implement methods(get, post, put, patch, delete) for the class to every HTTP method you want to support. If someone tries to use a method that has not been implemented, there will be 405 response.

## Examples
```python
from sanic import Sanic
from sanic.views import HTTPMethodView
from sanic.response import text

app = Sanic('some_name')


class SimpleView(HTTPMethodView):

  def get(self, request):
      return text('I am get method')

  def post(self, request):
      return text('I am post method')

  def put(self, request):
      return text('I am put method')

  def patch(self, request):
      return text('I am patch method')

  def delete(self, request):
      return text('I am delete method')

app.add_route(SimpleView.as_view(), '/')

```

If you need any url params just mention them in method definition:

```python
class NameView(HTTPMethodView):

  def get(self, request, name):
    return text('Hello {}'.format(name))

app.add_route(NameView.as_view(), '/<name>')

```

If you want to add decorator for class, you could set decorators variable

```
class ViewWithDecorator(HTTPMethodView):
  decorators = [some_decorator_here]

  def get(self, request, name):
    return text('Hello I have a decorator')

app.add_route(ViewWithDecorator.as_view(), '/url')

```

Commit message:

Clarify the class-based views guide

docs/class_based_views.md, after:

# Class-based views

Class-based views are simply classes which implement response behaviour to
requests. They provide a way to compartmentalise handling of different HTTP
request types at the same endpoint. Rather than defining and decorating three
different handler functions, one for each of an endpoint's supported request
type, the endpoint can be assigned a class-based view.

## Defining views

A class-based view should subclass `HTTPMethodView`. You can then implement
class methods for every HTTP request type you want to support. If a request is
received that has no defined method, a `405: Method not allowed` response will
be generated.

To register a class-based view on an endpoint, the `app.add_route` method is
used. The first argument should be the defined class with the method `as_view`
invoked, and the second should be the URL endpoint.

The available methods are `get`, `post`, `put`, `patch`, and `delete`. A class
using all these methods would look like the following.

```python
from sanic import Sanic
from sanic.views import HTTPMethodView
from sanic.response import text

app = Sanic('some_name')

class SimpleView(HTTPMethodView):

  def get(self, request):
      return text('I am get method')

  def post(self, request):
      return text('I am post method')

  def put(self, request):
      return text('I am put method')

  def patch(self, request):
      return text('I am patch method')

  def delete(self, request):
      return text('I am delete method')

app.add_route(SimpleView.as_view(), '/')

```

## URL parameters

If you need any URL parameters, as discussed in the routing guide, include them
in the method definition.

```python
class NameView(HTTPMethodView):

  def get(self, request, name):
    return text('Hello {}'.format(name))

app.add_route(NameView.as_view(), '/<name>')
```

## Decorators

If you want to add any decorators to the class, you can set the `decorators`
class variable. These will be applied to the class when `as_view` is called.

```
class ViewWithDecorator(HTTPMethodView):
  decorators = [some_decorator_here]

  def get(self, request, name):
    return text('Hello I have a decorator')

app.add_route(ViewWithDecorator.as_view(), '/url')
```
