docs/cookies.md, before:

# Cookies

## Request

Request cookies can be accessed via the request.cookie dictionary

### Example

```python
from sanic import Sanic
from sanic.response import text

@app.route("/cookie")
async def test(request):
    test_cookie = request.cookies.get('test')
    return text("Test cookie set to: {}".format(test_cookie))
```

## Response

Response cookies can be set like dictionary values and 
have the following parameters available:

* expires - datetime - Time for cookie to expire on the client's browser
* path - string - The Path attribute specifies the subset of URLs to 
         which this cookie applies
* comment - string - Cookie comment (metadata)
* domain - string - Specifies the domain for which the
           cookie is valid.  An explicitly specified domain must always 
           start with a dot.
* max-age - number - Number of seconds the cookie should live for
* secure - boolean - Specifies whether the cookie will only be sent via
           HTTPS
* httponly - boolean - Specifies whether the cookie cannot be read
             by javascript

### Example

```python
from sanic import Sanic
from sanic.response import text

@app.route("/cookie")
async def test(request):
    response = text("There's a cookie up in this response")
    response.cookies['test'] = 'It worked!'
    response.cookies['test']['domain'] = '.gotta-go-fast.com'
    response.cookies['test']['httponly'] = True
    return response
```

Commit message:

Clarify, reformat, and add to documentation guides (#318)
* Reorder and clarify the 'Request Data' guide, adding a section on RequestParameters

* Clarify routing guide, adding introduction and HTTP types sections

* Clarify the use-cases of middleware

* Clean up formatting in the exceptions guide and add some common exceptions.

* Fix formatting of blueprints and add use-case example.

* Clarify the class-based views guide

* Clarify and fix formatting of cookies guide

* Clarify static files guide

* Clarify the custom protocols guide.

* Add more information to the deploying guide

* Fix broken list in the community extensions list.

* Add introduction and improve warning to contributing guide

* Expand getting started guide

* Reorder guides and add links between them

* Standardise heading capitalisation

docs/cookies.md, after:

# Cookies

Cookies are pieces of data which persist inside a user's browser. Sanic can
both read and write cookies, which are stored as key-value pairs.

## Reading cookies

A user's cookies can be accessed `Request` object's `cookie` dictionary.

```python
from sanic.response import text

@app.route("/cookie")
async def test(request):
    test_cookie = request.cookies.get('test')
    return text("Test cookie set to: {}".format(test_cookie))
```

## Writing cookies

When returning a response, cookies can be set on the `Response` object.

```python
from sanic.response import text

@app.route("/cookie")
async def test(request):
    response = text("There's a cookie up in this response")
    response.cookies['test'] = 'It worked!'
    response.cookies['test']['domain'] = '.gotta-go-fast.com'
    response.cookies['test']['httponly'] = True
    return response
```

Response cookies can be set like dictionary values and have the following
parameters available:

- `expires` (datetime): The time for the cookie to expire on the
                        client's browser.
- `path` (string): The subset of URLs to which this cookie applies.
- `comment` (string): A comment (metadata).
- `domain` (string): Specifies the domain for which the cookie is valid. An
           explicitly specified domain must always start with a dot.
- `max-age` (number): Number of seconds the cookie should live for.
- `secure` (boolean): Specifies whether the cookie will only be sent via
                      HTTPS.
- `httponly` (boolean): Specifies whether the cookie cannot be read by
                        Javascript.

**Previous:** [Class-based views](class_based_views.html)

**Next:** [Custom protocols](custom_protocol.html)
